[Music]
to understand the scale of Destruction
in Gaza today one needs to understand
the nature of the war Israel has
launched against Palestinians we're not
talking about conventional Warfare this
is a war of annihilation that targets
the foundations of
society we've seen universities bombed
libraries
museums Israel is trying to prevent
Palestinians from reclaiming and
reestablishing life in Gaza as they knew
it my name is Jihad Abu Salim I'm from
the city of darl balah located in the
middle of the Gaza Strip it's where I
grew up and spent most of my life Gaza
City was the only Palestinian coastal
city that was not conquered by Zionist
militias in
1948 and that gave Gaza uh huge
significance and placed it as the
Beating Heart of preserving Palestinian
nationalism and furthering the
Palestinian cause for Liberation and
emancipation
by destroying universities museums
libraries and archives Israel seeks to
make our memory whether it's Collective
institutional inaccessible it's an
assault on
continuity they want to force people out
of Gaza but also they want to make sure
that if people return to Gaza they find
nothing and dwell for eternity in this
limbo of nothingness in this
void
[Music]
gaza's old city with its masks like or a
church like the Church of St poriferous
testifies to Palestines complex and
multifaceted
history alar mosque is the second oldest
mque in Palestine after AA MK and from
the footage that we've seen it seems
that the mosque was deliberately
targeted because there are photos that
show surrounding buildings standing
intact while the mosque has been bombed
to smithin so Israel is trying to impose
a rupture between the present and the
past
and of course the future and destroying
an iconic structure like musk is just
part of that
effort the goal of targeting uh gaza's
archives is to make it impossible for
people to rebuild and reclaim what has
been lost we did not only lose
historical documents but also land Deeds
land
registration infrastructure plans and
schemes now we hear all these reports of
people going back to their neighborhoods
and being unable to recognize where the
street that they lived on was located
where their homes were and they think
that by destroying institutions or uh
archives or looting museums they can
destroy Gaza as a place and therefore
prevent people from returning there or
reestablishing their lives
Gaza and its District have suffered a
lot in terms of the targeting and
destruction of historic and Heritage s
after
1967 after Gaza became under Israeli
occupation Israeli defense minister MOS
Dean built an entire Infamous career in
addition to being a war criminal of
looting artifacts from different parts
of Gaza and Palestine and storing them
in his own home but also in the 1970s
and 80s Israeli forces alongside Israeli
archaeologists looted a
4,500 year old Canaanite Cemetery
located in derl balah my hometown and
they took anything they could carry to
the Israel national museum and today I
go on the internet and I see artifacts
that were stolen and looted from this
site being sold around the world and
that makes you wonder if Israel's
practices today are a new phenomenon or
just a continuation of a long-standing
pattern of uh destruction and looting of
Palestinian history and
culture in this war alone Palestinians
in Gaza have lost towering figures in in
in their society who shaped and defined
the cultural and scholarly life uh in
Gaza and if there is one
individual that captures the essence of
this
city and what it stands for
it's if the Lions do not have their own
historians the history of the hunt will
always glorify the hunters will always
glorify the
occupier was was killed while he was
Sheltering with his sister and her
children before he was killed he
received a phone call from an Israeli
officer warning him that uh they're
after him he was killed his sister was
killed the children were killed and his
brother was also killed I'm an academic
I probably the toughest thing I have at
at home is an expo Mar but if the
Israelis
invade if they par at us charge at US
Open Door too to Massacre us I'm going
to use that marker throw it at the
Israeli soldiers even if that is the
last thing that I would be able to do he
was an important professor and and a
writer and a poet whose impact
transcended his personal work to shaping
and molding of a generation of
English-speaking Palestinians in Gaza
who mastered the art of telling their
stories but we we've also
lost a large number of cultural and
literary figures and of course many
academics this is an assault on the
people who create meaning in society and
who create the language that helps
people understand and and reflect on
their reality Israel knew what it has
been doing and continues to do by
attacking and going after our cultural
and literary and intellectual figures
but tat like Gaza is an idea and ideas
don't die buddies can perish cities can
be destroyed but the ideas that they
stand for the principles and the values
these are things that uh do not just
vanish Into Thin Air they continue to
exist and to inspire people for many
years to
come thanks for watching now hit that
like button and leave us a comment to
let us know what you think about
anything that we covered this week don't
forget to follow us on Twitter does
anyone really call it x Facebook and
Instagram for updates from the show
links are in the
description